Define c8s and c9s source-git contribution model (#8)
CentOS/docs-contributors-guide: modules/ROOT/pages/contributing/source-git.adoc

:toc:

If you’re familiar with how packaging is done in CentOS and Fedora, you may know dist-git repositories: each repository represents a source RPM package and contains all the RPM source files (RPM spec file, upstream tarball checksum and optionally patch files and other files).
But the repository itself doesn't contain any source code - you need to execute `%prep` phase to see the source tree before it's being compiled.

CentOS Stream 8 and CentOS Stream 9 have orthogonal relationship with Red Hat Enterprise Linux and because of this fact, source-git repositories work differently for both `c8s` and `c9s`.

> For more details on how to work in a source-git repository, please head on to https://packit.dev/docs/source-git/work-with-source-git/[packit's documentation].

Reviewer: I think this sentence would have a better place at the end of the Stream 9 chapter.

Author: I wanted to have it up as soon as possible but on the other hand it may feel disruptive since it's mentioned too soon.

Will try to move it and see how it looks

Author: yup, definitely a better fit to have it at the of the c9s section

== CentOS Stream 9

Red Hat maintainers that want to use a source-based workflow will be working here and MRs will be merged to the `c9s` branches and synchronized to dist-git. CentOS Stream 9 source-git repos contain git history of the upstream project so you'll feel more like contributing to the project rather than a bunch of downstream packaging files. The CentOS Stream 9 changes and packaging content are layered on top of the upstream git history.

=== Submitting a change in a source-git repo

> Changes to packaging files, such as the spec file, are done without any special care on your side: just edit the file, save it and commit it. All the packaging files live in a `.distro` subidrectory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changes to packaging files, such as the spec file, are done without any special care on your side: just edit the file, save it and commit it. All the packaging files live in a `.distro` subdirectory.
```

If you are changing source code and you know that a patch in the spec is needed, add the patch to the spec file with a name of your choice:

----
Patch123: my-special-change.patch
----

Now you need to annotate the git commit which matches the patch with the respective change
----
We need this change in CentOS Stream

patch_name: my-special-change.patch

Signed-off-by: Tomas Tomecek <ttomecek@redhat.com>

---
 src/code.c | 17 +++++++++--------
 1 file changed, 9 insertions(+), 8 deletions(-)
----

The automation, packit, then reads the commit message, knows that the patch is already defined in the spec file and creates a patch file with the name set in `patch_name` from the respective commit when creating a SRPM.

This is the preferred way of changing source code since you define the name of patch files.

=== After a merge request is created

You should receive a review from a Red Hat maintainer.

Once your MR is approved, it's gonna be merged first in a respective dist-git repo to make sure it can built and passes all the checks. Once all is good, it can be merged in the source-git repo as well.

> When you open a source-git MR, you'll be able to see CI checks which are comming from a mirrored MR which was autoamtically created in dist-git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you open a source-git MR, you'll be able to see CI checks which are coming from a mirrored MR which was automatically created in dist-git.
```

Author: uhhh, I seem not to have spellcheck set up on my new workstation -_-

Author: okay, so it's .adoc files, I have spellcheck enabled for markdown, not other text files
